[Workers] storage object guide (#5380)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/workers/get-started/storage-objects.md

---
title: Storage options guide
pcx-content-type: concept
weight: 2
meta:
  title: Storage options guide
---

# Storage options guide

The Cloudflare Workers platform provides multiple storage options. This guide will inform you on which storage option is appropriate based on your project's use case.

## KV

Workers KV is an eventually consistent, global, low-latency, key-value data store. 

It is ideal for projects that require:

* High volumes of reads and/or repeated reads to the same keys.
* High request rates and work with large amounts of data.
* Per-object time-to-live (TTL).
* Asset storage for websites.

To get started with KV:

* Read how [KV works](/workers/learning/how-kv-works/).
* Create a [KV namespace](/workers/wrangler/workers-kv/).
* Review the [KV Runtime API](/workers/runtime-apis/kv/).
* Learn about KV [Limits](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/platform/limits/#kv-limits).

## R2 (beta)

R2 is S3-compatible blob storage that allows developers to store large amounts of unstructured data without egress fees.

It is ideal for projects that require:

* Long-term storage and storage for files which are infrequently accessed.

> * Affordable and economic storage and operations.

Author: ```suggestion
* More affordable storage and operations.
```

Reviewer: If we say "More" I think we need to answer the question "than what?"

* Large object storage.
* Strong consistency per object.

To get started with R2:

* Read the [Get started guide](https://developers.cloudflare.com/r2/get-started/).
* Learn about R2 [Limits](https://developers.cloudflare.com/r2/platform/limits/).
* Review the [R2 Runtime API](https://developers.cloudflare.com/r2/runtime-apis/).

## R2 and KV comparison

{{<table-wrap>}}

| Feature                                   | KV           | R2 (beta)    |
| ----------------------------------------- | ------------ | ------------ |
| Maximum upload size                       | 25 MiB       | 5 GB         |
| Read your writes                          | No           | Yes          |
| Cached                                    | Always       | Can be       |
| S3-compatible API                         | No           | Yes          |
| TTL expiration                            | Object-level | Bucket-level |

> | Maximum operations per second across a bucket | Unlimited    | <1000        |

Author: ```suggestion
| Maximum operations per second | Unlimited    | <1,000 per bucket        |
```

Reviewer: FWIW One reason buckets were called out even for KV is that you cannot do unlimited writes to a single KV key. Hard to squeeze that into a small table, though.

---

> title: Storage objects guide

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Storage options guide
```

pcx-content-type: concept
weight: 2
meta:

>   title: Storage objects guide

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  title: Storage options guide
```

---

> # Storage objects guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Storage options guide
```

(Just going by other comments and assuming this is what we're changing this to.)

> The Cloudflare Workers platform provides multiple storage. This guide will inform you on which storage object is appropriate based on your project's use case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Cloudflare Workers platform provides multiple storage options. This guide will inform you on which storage option is appropriate based on your project's use case.
```

## KV

Workers KV is an eventually consistent, global, low-latency, key-value data store. 

It is ideal for projects that require:

* High volumes of reads and/or repeated reads to the same keys.

> * High request rates and work with large amounts of data.

Reviewer 2: To me, large means more than 25MB, so would say something else than large in case of KV.  
```suggestion
* High request rates and work with medium amounts of data.
```

Reviewer: We should probably be more specific, because "medium" and "large" have no meaning to me.

KV has no limits on total size of a namespace, people have TBs in KV. I think we should specifically call out the per-value max of 25MB here and separately call out that total KV usage isn't limited.

Reviewer: Also "High request rates" and the bullet above "High volumes of reads" seems like repetition to me.

* Per-object time-to-live (TTL).
* Asset storage for websites.

To get started with KV:

* Read how [KV works](/workers/learning/how-kv-works/).
* Create a [KV namespace](/workers/wrangler/workers-kv/).
* Review the [KV Runtime API](/workers/runtime-apis/kv/).
* Learn about KV [Limits](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/platform/limits/#kv-limits).

## R2 (beta)

> R2 is S3-compatible blob storage that allows developers to store large amounts of unstructured data without egress fees.

Reviewer: If I put my customer hat on, I'd be looking at how this line differs from KV above. KV also has no egress fees, so I think we should mention this up there too or remove it here?

It is ideal for projects that require:

> * Long-term storage and storage for files which are infrequently accessed.

Reviewer: Again with my customer hat on, this feels like it implies KV or DOs aren't useful for long-term storage.

> * Affordable and economic storage and operations.

Reviewer: What's the difference between affordable and economic?

* Large object storage.

> * Strong consistency per object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Strong consistency per object.
* Per-bucket time-to-live (TTL) 
```

Reviewer: I don't think TTLs are implemented in R2 yet.

To get started with R2:

* Read the [Get started guide](https://developers.cloudflare.com/r2/get-started/).
* Learn about R2 [Limits](https://developers.cloudflare.com/r2/platform/limits/).
* Review the [R2 Runtime API](https://developers.cloudflare.com/r2/runtime-apis/).

## R2 and KV comparison

{{<table-wrap>}}

| Feature                                   | KV           | R2 (beta)    |
| ----------------------------------------- | ------------ | ------------ |

> | Maximum upload size                       | 25 MiB       | 5 GB         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Maximum size per value                       | 25 MiB       | 5 GB         |
```
Is it really 5GB for R2? That's an interesting number, I figured it'd be 4GB to be a round power of 2 (but I have no idea).

Reviewer 3: The maximum *upload* size is `4.995 GB` (like the AWS S3 `PutObject` limitation of `5 GB`) and the maximum object size is `4.995 TB`.

If it's being renamed from `Maximum upload size` to `Maximum size per value` then it'll probably want moving over to the `4.995 TB` number.

> | Read your writes                          | No           | Yes          |

Reviewer 4: It's unclear what this means, could use a little clarification 🙂

Reviewer 5: I think this is best phrased as Consistency model, with KV as Eventual and R2 as Strong, and we can elaborate the specific behavior in KV/R2 docs -- It's not completely accurate to distill the distinction between the two down to being able to read your writes or not, as with KV you can read your writes within the same colo you made the write from, but it may take some time to be able to do so in other locations especially if they have read the old value recently.

Reviewer: Yeah, this matches the "Strong consistency per object." under R2 above, I think we need to find a better way to describe this, since I think plenty of people won't understand either at first glance.

> | Cached                                    | Always       | Can be       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Cached                                    | Always       | Can be by using Cache API in a Worker      |
```

| S3-compatible API                         | No           | Yes          |

> | TTL expiration                            | Object-level | Bucket-level |

Reviewer: As noted above, I'm pretty sure R2 doesn't implement *any* TTLs today -- this is more of a looking-forward thing.

And we should check with R2 what the details of that will be, maybe they offer per-object or something. I know they need to support S3-like lifecycle policies, but I don't know anything about those.

> | Maximum operations per second across a bucket | Unlimited    | <1000        |

Reviewer: We call them "namespaces" in KV and "buckets" in R2... hopefully people will just Get It, but maybe not. :(

{{</table-wrap>}}

## Durable Objects

> Durable Objects provide low-latency coordination and consistent storage for the Workers platform through global uniqueness and a transactional storage API. Durable Objects are persistent Workers with consistent memory accessible from other Workers. Each Durable Object has its own consistent KV storage. With Durable Objects, you can sync writes to other storage objects such as KV or third parties.

Reviewer 5: https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/learning/using-durable-objects/ I like the blurb from here more than this, I think expanding on why global uniqueness is useful and exactly how storage is accessed within DOs is important to understanding them.

Also, I think it's a bit confusing to talk about the usecase of syncing to Workers KV right after talking about how each worker has its own KV storage -- they're separate concepts and I think it's important to make that distinction clear since there's the name collision between the type of storage DO offers, and the Workers KV product.

It is ideal for projects that require:

* Real-time collaboration (such as a chat application or a game server).
* Consistent storage.

> * Relational storage.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Storage options guide
pcx-content-type: concept
weight: 2
meta:
  title: Storage options guide
---

# Storage options guide

The Cloudflare Workers platform provides multiple storage options. This guide will inform you on which storage option is appropriate based on your project's use case.

## KV

> Workers KV is an eventually consistent, global, low-latency, key-value data store. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workers KV is an eventually consistent key-value data store that caches on the edge.
```

I wonder if this is a more accurate summary? People _commonly_ think that a KV write is "propagated" around the world. And just calling something "low-latency" might make some people think that changes are visible around the world in milliseconds.

Being upfront that KV works by just caching results in each colo might help people understand the difference between KV and R2 and the trade-offs when using KV?

I'm curious what other folks who don't work on KV think, though.

* Create a [KV namespace](/workers/wrangler/workers-kv/).
* Review the [KV Runtime API](/workers/runtime-apis/kv/).
* Learn about KV [Limits](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/platform/limits/#kv-limits).

## R2 (beta)

R2 is S3-compatible blob storage that allows developers to store large amounts of unstructured data without egress fees associated with typical cloud storage services.

It is ideal for projects that require:

* Storage for files which are infrequently accessed.
* Large object storage.
* Strong consistency per object.

To get started with R2:

* Read the [Get started guide](https://developers.cloudflare.com/r2/get-started/).
* Learn about R2 [Limits](https://developers.cloudflare.com/r2/platform/limits/).
* Review the [R2 Runtime API](https://developers.cloudflare.com/r2/runtime-apis/).

## R2 and KV comparison

{{<table-wrap>}}

| Feature                                       | KV           | R2 (beta)    |
| --------------------------------------------- | ------------ | ------------ |
| Maximum size per value                        | 25 MiB       | 5 TB         |
| Consistency model                             | Eventual     | Strong       |

> | Cached                                        | Always       | Can be by using [Cache API](/workers/runtime-apis/cache/) in a Worker |

Author: ```suggestion
| Cached                                        | Always       | Possible when using [Cache API](/workers/runtime-apis/cache/) in a Worker |
```

| S3-compatible API                             | No           | Yes                     |
| TTL expiration                                | Object-level | Not currently available |

> | Maximum operations per second                 | Unlimited    | <1,000/bucket           |

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
| Maximum operations per second                 | Unlimited    |  < 1,000/bucket           |
```
